
Network Enumeration with NMAP 

-F top 100 ports 

classics 
-sV services 
-sU UDP specific 
-sC Default scripts  

-D Decoy, random IP's within a range that you can specify, can use to look like you are within DMZ or registered to the DNS 

FootPrinting 
Enumeration should be a full picture, so really dive in. Understand the infrastructure well, services utilized internally, 
third party vendors and other really important aspects of the company for your penetration test. Real;ly Deep Dive. 

Guiding Questions through the enumeration
What can we see?
What reasons can we have for seeing it?
What image does what we see create for us?
What do we gain from it?
How can we use it?
What can we not see?
What reasons can there be that we do not see?
What image results for us from what we do not see?

There are layers to this enumeration based on the infrastrcuture and should look like this: 
1. Internet Presence	Identification of internet presence and externally accessible infrastructure.	Domains, Subdomains, vHosts, ASN, Netblocks, IP Addresses, Cloud Instances, Security Measures
2. Gateway	Identify the possible security measures to protect the company's external and internal infrastructure.	Firewalls, DMZ, IPS/IDS, EDR, Proxies, NAC, Network Segmentation, VPN, Cloudflare
3. Accessible Services	Identify accessible interfaces and services that are hosted externally or internally.	Service Type, Functionality, Configuration, Port, Version, Interface
4. Processes	Identify the internal processes, sources, and destinations associated with the services.	PID, Processed Data, Tasks, Source, Destination
5. Privileges	Identification of the internal permissions and privileges to the accessible services.	Groups, Users, Permissions, Restrictions, Environment
6. OS Setup	Identification of the internal components and systems setup.	OS Type, Patch Level, Network config, OS Environment, Configuration files, sensitive private files

Domain enumeration: 

Definietly look at the main website to get a feel for how it looks and the information that it provides. 
Be very careful to keep track of what you are able to find, and also be able to look and figure what are you NOT seeing. 

Check the Certificates to see what subdomains you can find
Also use shodan to dive deeper into these subdomains 

curl -s https://crt.sh/\?q\=<target-domain>\&output\=json | jq .	Certificate transparency.
for i in $(cat ip-addresses.txt);do shodan host $i;done	Scan each IP address in a list using Shodan. 

Cloud Resources: 

 One of the easiest and most used is Google search combined with Google Dorks. For example, we can use the Google Dorks inurl: and intext: 

https://buckets.grayhatwarfare.com/ find resources here

Staff

Job posts be telling you hella about the technologies that the company utilizes, for example if they are looking for a C++ dev you're in good luck memory coruption vulns will be coming your way 

Sharing projects on Github without hiding secrets can also be a dead giveaway 

FTP 

Vsftpd is the main server used on linux systems
ftp <FQDN/IP>	Interact with the FTP service on the target.
nc -nv <FQDN/IP> 21	Interact with the FTP service on the target.
telnet <FQDN/IP> 21	Interact with the FTP service on the target.
openssl s_client -connect <FQDN/IP>:21 -starttls ftp	Interact with the FTP service on the target using encrypted connection.
wget -m --no-passive ftp://anonymous:anonymous@<target>	Download all available files on the target FTP server.

Mostly Run on Port 21 

Get and put are important commands for moving and getting files from the ftp server. 

SMB 
SMB is a CIFS based file sharing protocols that is used by windows systems to share directories, files, printers and other thigns across a netowrk. 
Windows specifically will use things like NTLM and Kerberos to authenticate users 

Linux has Samba and Sambaclient to communicate with other servers. 

Some Important commands: 
smbclient -N -L //<FQDN/IP>	Null session authentication on SMB.
smbclient //<FQDN/IP>/<share>	Connect to a specific SMB share.
rpcclient -U "" <FQDN/IP>	Interaction with the target using RPC.
samrdump.py <FQDN/IP>	Username enumeration using Impacket scripts.
smbmap -H <FQDN/IP>	Enumerating SMB shares.
crackmapexec smb <FQDN/IP> --shares -u '' -p ''	Enumerating SMB shares using null session authentication.
enum4linux-ng.py <FQDN/IP> -A	SMB enumeration using enum4linux.

DNS 
DNS (Domain Name Resolution) WWW version of connecting IPs to DOmain Names and Vice Versa. 

Different types of DNS Servers: 
DNS Root Server	The root servers of the DNS are responsible for the top-level domains (TLD). As the last instance, they are only requested if the name server does not respond. Thus, a root server is a central interface between users and content on the Internet, as it links domain and IP address. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) coordinates the work of the root name servers. There are 13 such root servers around the globe.
Authoritative Nameserver	Authoritative name servers hold authority for a particular zone. They only answer queries from their area of responsibility, and their information is binding. If an authoritative name server cannot answer a client's query, the root name server takes over at that point.
Non-authoritative Nameserver	Non-authoritative name servers are not responsible for a particular DNS zone. Instead, they collect information on specific DNS zones themselves, which is done using recursive or iterative DNS querying.
Caching DNS Server	Caching DNS servers cache information from other name servers for a specified period. The authoritative name server determines the duration of this storage.
Forwarding Server	Forwarding servers perform only one function: they forward DNS queries to another DNS server.
Resolver	Resolvers are not authoritative DNS servers but perform name resolution locally in the computer or router.


There are differnt types of records that a DNS Server can hold, here are some of them: 
A	Returns an IPv4 address of the requested domain as a result.
AAAA	Returns an IPv6 address of the requested domain.
MX	Returns the responsible mail servers as a result.
NS	Returns the DNS servers (nameservers) of the domain.
TXT	This record can contain various information. The all-rounder can be used, e.g., to validate the Google Search Console or validate SSL certificates. In addition, SPF and DMARC entries are set to validate mail traffic and protect it from spam.
CNAME	This record serves as an alias. If the domain www.hackthebox.eu should point to the same IP, and we create an A record for one and a CNAME record for the other.
PTR	The PTR record works the other way around (reverse lookup). It converts IP addresses into valid domain names.
SOA	Provides information about the corresponding DNS zone and email address of the administrative contact.


SMTP 

//TODO Add Notes Here

IMAP/POP3 

Both Mail protocols that lwet you hgave a centralized server that contains the mail themselves and allows you to sync the individual mailboxes across the organization. 
IMAP has considerably more functionality then POP3 

From HTB Notes: 
The protocol is client-server-based and allows synchronization of a local email client with the mailbox on the server, providing a kind of network file system for emails, allowing problem-free synchronization across several independent clients. POP3, on the other hand, does not have the same functionality as IMAP, and it only provides listing, retrieving, and deleting emails as functions at the email server. 

IMAP default is unencrypted 

IMAP Commands
Command	Description
1 LOGIN username password	User's login.
1 LIST "" *	Lists all directories.
1 CREATE "INBOX"	Creates a mailbox with a specified name.
1 DELETE "INBOX"	Deletes a mailbox.
1 RENAME "ToRead" "Important"	Renames a mailbox.
1 LSUB "" *	Returns a subset of names from the set of names that the User has declared as being active or subscribed.
1 SELECT INBOX	Selects a mailbox so that messages in the mailbox can be accessed.
1 UNSELECT INBOX	Exits the selected mailbox.
1 FETCH <ID> all	Retrieves data associated with a message in the mailbox.
1 CLOSE	Removes all messages with the Deleted flag set.
1 LOGOUT	Closes the connection with the IMAP server.

POP3 Commands
Command	Description
USER username	Identifies the user.
PASS password	Authentication of the user using its password.
STAT	Requests the number of saved emails from the server.
LIST	Requests from the server the number and size of all emails.
RETR id	Requests the server to deliver the requested email by ID.
DELE id	Requests the server to delete the requested email by ID.
CAPA	Requests the server to display the server capabilities.
RSET	Requests the server to reset the transmitted information.
QUIT	Closes the connection with the POP3 server.

DANGEROUS SETTINGS 
auth_debug	Enables all authentication debug logging.
auth_debug_passwords	This setting adjusts log verbosity, the submitted passwords, and the scheme gets logged.
auth_verbose	Logs unsuccessful authentication attempts and their reasons.
auth_verbose_passwords	Passwords used for authentication are logged and can also be truncated.
auth_anonymous_username	This specifies the username to be used when logging in with the ANONYMOUS SASL mechanism.

Important Commands 
sudo nmap 10.129.14.128 -sV -p110,143,993,995 -sC
